---
date: 13-8-25
duration: 2 hr
prev: "[[NT day 4]]"
next: "[[NT day 6]]"
---
>[!theorem] Chinese remainder theorem
> Given $m_{1},m_{2},\dots,m_{k}$ be pairwise co-prime, and $a_{1},\dots,a_{k}\in \mathbb{Z}$ be arbitrary, then the system of congruences $$  \begin{cases}
x\equiv a_{1} & (\text{mod }m_{1}) \\
x\equiv a_{2} & (\text{mod }m_{2}) \\
 \dots \\
x\equiv a_{k} & (\text{mod }m_{k}) \\
\end{cases}  $$ has a unique solution modulo $m_{1}m_{2}\dots m_{k}$.

>[!proof] 
> Define $n_{i}:=\frac{m_{1}\dots m_{k}}{m_{_{i}}}$ for each $i≤k$. Clearly $(m_{i},n_{i})=1$ and $m_{i}|n_{j}$ if $i\ne j$. Then we can take $x:=\sum_{i=1}^{k}a_{i}n_{i}^{\varphi(m_{i})}$. 
> 
> Other than that we can use Bézout. Say $m_{i}u_{i}+n_{i}v_{i}=1$ for $u_{i},v_{i}\in \mathbb{Z}$. Now we can also define $x:=\sum_{i=1}^{k}a_{i}v_{i}n_{i}$.
> 
> <div style="text-align: right;"> Q.E.D.  </div>

>[!example] 
> $$  \begin{cases}
x\equiv 0 & (\text{mod }2) \\
x\equiv 1 & (\text{mod }3) \\ 
x\equiv 2 & (\text{mod }5) \\
x\equiv 3 & (\text{mod }11) \\ 
x\equiv 5 & (\text{mod }23) \\
\end{cases}  $$


>[!proposition] Totient function is multiplicative
>If $(m,n)=1$, then $\varphi(mn)=\varphi(m)\varphi(n)$.

>[!proof] Proof without CRT
> We do it in the most elementary way possible by counting the incidences. We draw out the grid $$  \begin{matrix}
1 & 2 & \cdots & j & \cdots  & m \\
m+1 & m+2 & \cdots  & m+j & \cdots & 2m \\
\vdots & \vdots &  & \vdots &  & \vdots \\
(n-1)m+1 & (n-1)m+2 & \cdots  & (n-1)m+j & \cdots & mn
\end{matrix}  $$
Each row which is a CRS $\text{mod }m$ has $\varphi(m)$ elements coprime to $m$ and for any column which is a CRS $\text{mod }n$ has $\varphi(n)$ elements coprime to $n$. 

>[!proof] Proof using CRT
> We show a bijection bewteen $(\mathbb{Z}/m\mathbb{Z})^\times \times(\mathbb{Z}/n\mathbb{Z})^\times$ and $\mathbb{Z}/mn\mathbb{Z}$. 
> $\overline{x}\mapsto(\overline{x},\overline{x})$ then we show injection and surjection.

>[!corollary] 
> 1. $\varphi(p^n)=p^n-p^{n-1}$.
> 2. $\varphi(n)=n\prod_{p|n}\left( 1-{\frac{1}{p}} \right)$.

>[!proposition] Inverting back
> $$  \sum_{d|n}\varphi(d)=n.   $$

>[!proof] 
> Take the set $$  S=\left\{  \frac{1}{n},{\frac{2}{n}},{\frac{3}{n}},\dots,{\frac{n}{n}}  \right\}.  $$ and for each $d|n$, define $$  S_{d}:=\left\{  \frac{a}{d}\ |\ 1≤a≤d,\ (a,d)=1  \right\}.  $$
>Therefore we see that if $a\ne  b$ then $S_{a}\cap S_{b}=\varnothing$ since one rational cannot be written in two distinct reduced forms. Also we see that $\bigsqcup_{d|n}S_{d}=S$. Therefore we see the result.

### Some groups again
$(\mathbb{Z},+)$ is a group, and so is $(2\mathbb{Z},+)$. But $2\mathbb{Z}\subseteq \mathbb{Z}$. This is therefore a **subgroup**.
>[!definition] Subgroup
> Let $(G,\cdot)$ be a group. $(H,\cdot)$ is a *subgroup* of $(G,\cdot)$ if 
> 1. $H\subseteq G$,
> 2. $e_{G}\in H$,
> 3. $\forall h_{1},h_{2}\in H,\ h_{1}\cdot h_{2}\in H$, and
> 4. $\forall h\in H,\ h^{-1}\in H$.
> 
> That is, $H$ is a group as well. In this case, we write $H≤G$.

>[!definition] Cyclic groups
> Given group $G$ and $g\in G$. Then   $\langle g \rangle:=\{ g^{n}\ |\ n\in \mathbb{Z} \}$ is a subgroup, i.e. $\langle g \rangle≤G$. This $\langle g \rangle$ is called the *cyclic subgroup* generated by $g$.
> 
> If there is $g\in G$ such that $\langle g \rangle =G$ then $G$ is called *cyclic*.

>[!example] Cyclics
> $(\mathbb{Z}/6\mathbb{Z})^\times$ is cyclic $\langle \overline{5} \rangle$ but $(\mathbb{Z}/8\mathbb{Z})$ is not cyclic. $(\mathbb{Z}/11\mathbb{Z})^\times$ is $\langle \overline{2} \rangle$. Also $(\mathbb{Z}/20\mathbb{Z})^\times$ is not cyclic.

>[!definition] Primitive roots
> We say that $m\in \mathbb{Z}^+$ has *primitive roots* if $(\mathbb{Z}/m\mathbb{Z})^\times$ is cyclic. 
> If $m$ has primitive roots and $(\mathbb{Z}/m\mathbb{Z})^\times=\langle \overline{r} \rangle$ then we say $r$ is a primitive root for $m$. 

>[!remark] Not unique
> Notice that this primitive root is not unique since it is an integer and not a class itself. So for $(\mathbb{Z}/6\mathbb{Z})^\times$, $5$ is a primitive root and so is $11$ or $16$.

