---
aliases:
  - Section C
---
1. (a) is a subspace. Easy to check.
(b) is not a subspace since it does not contain $(0,0,0)$.
(c) is not a subspace since it contains $(1,1,0)$ and $(0,1,1)$ but not $(1,2,1)$.
(d) is a subspace. Easy to check.
2. meh
3. Given the subset $S:=\{f\in\mathbb{R}^{(-4,4)}\ |\ f'(-1)=3f(2)\}$, we see that the zero function is in $S$ indeed, and for any $f,g\in S$, both $f'(-1)=3f(2)$ and $g'(-1)=3g(2)$ hold, therefore $(f+g)'(-1)=3(f+g)(2)$ hence $(f+g)\in S$. Also for any $\lambda\in(-4,4)$, $(\lambda f)'(-1)=3(\lambda f)(2)$, so $\lambda f\in S$. And easy to see that the rest of the axioms are satisfied as well.
4. Given $b\in \mathbb{R}$, and we are given the set $$S=\big\{  f\in\mathcal{C}^0[0,1]\ :\ \int_{0}^1f=b \big\}$$ and the claim is that $S$ is a subspace of $\mathbb{R}^{[0,1]}$ if  and only if $b=0$.
Firstly suppose $S$ is a subspace. Then $0\in S$, where $\forall x\in[0,1],\ 0(x)=0\in \mathbb{R}$. Therefore $b=\int_{0}^10 =0$.
For the converse, if $b=0$, then $0\in S$, for any $f,g\in S$ and $r\in \mathbb{R}$, $(rf)\in S$, since $\int rf=r\int f=0$, $f+g\in S$ since $\int(f+g)=\int f+\int g=0+0=0$ and there is $-f\in S$ such since $\int(-f)=-\int f=0$, this along with the algebra carried over from $\mathbb{R}^{[0,1]}$, we see that $S$ is indeed a subspace.
5. $\mathbb{R}^2\subset \mathbb{C}^2$, contains the same algebra as $\mathbb{C}^2$, and is a vector space with that algebra, therefore is a subspace of $\mathbb{C}^2$.
6. **(a)** It is. Since on $\mathbb{R}^2$, $a^3=b^3\Rightarrow a=b$, and this set then can be easily confirmed to be a space. 
**(b)** No it is not. Call the set $V$. Like the reals we do not have unique cube roots in $\mathbb{C}$. For a counterexample, $(1,e^{\frac{2\pi i}3},0),(-1,e^{\frac{i\pi}3},0)\in V$ but $(0,e^\frac{i\pi}3+e^\frac{2\pi i}3,0)\not\in V$.
7. #s Satisfying the above conditions, is not enough to be a subspace, since $\mathbb{Z}$ also satisfies this and is not a subspace. In particular, scalar multiplication fails.
8. The example is $S:=\{ (0,y)\in \mathbb{R}^2 \}\cup \{ (x,0)\in \mathbb{R}^2 \}$. Given any $\alpha\in \mathbb{R}$, and $v\in S$, either there is $x\in \mathbb{R}:v=(x,0)$ or there is $y\in \mathbb{R}:v=(0,y)$. Then $\alpha v=(\alpha x,0)\in S$ or $\alpha v=(0,\alpha y)\in S$, hence it is closed under scalar multiplication, but it is not a vector space since for $x,y\ne 0$, $(x,y)=(x,0)+(0,y)\not\in S$.
9. The set described is not a space since both $\sin(x)$ and $\sin(\pi x)$ are periodic with periods $2\pi$ and $2$ respectively but $\sin(x)+\sin(\pi x)$ is not periodic.
10. If $V_{1},V_{2}\subseteq V$ is a subspace then for all $u,v\in V_{1}\cap V_{2}$ and $\lambda\in\mathbb{F}$, we have $u+v\in V_{1},V_{2}$, $\lambda v\in V_{1},V_{2}$. This is enough to show that $V_{1}\cap V_{2}$ is a subspace, by [[Vector space#^c1b298|this proposition]].
11. #s Given a collection $\mathfrak{S}:=\{ V_{i}\ |\ i\in I \}$ of subspaces $V_{i}\subseteq V$, we claim that $V':=\bigcap_{i\in I}V_{i}$ is also a subspace of $V$. Clearly, $V'\subseteq V$, and $0\in V'\ne \varnothing$, since $\forall i\in I,\ 0\in V_{i}$. If $u,v\in V'$ and $\lambda\in\mathbb{F}$, then $(u+v)\in V'$ since $\forall i\in I,\ (u+v)\in V_{i}$, and $\lambda v\in V'$ similarly. This is enough to show that $V'\subseteq V$ is also a subspace.
12. #s ($\Longrightarrow$, contrapositive) Given $V_{1},V_{2}\subseteq V$ subspaces, suppose there are $v_{1}\in V_{1}\setminus V_{2}$ and $v_{2}\in V_{2}\setminus V_{1}$. Then we can show that $v_{1}+v_{2}\not\in V_{1}\cup V_{2}$, since if $(v_{1}+v_{2})\in V_{1}$, then $v_{2}=(v_{1}+v_{2})-v_{1}\in V_{1}$ and if $(v_{1}+v_{2})\in V_{2}$, then $v_{1}=(v_{1}+v_{2})-v_{2}\in V_{2}$, both of which are contradictory to assumptions. Then $V_{1}\cup V_{2}$ is not a subspace. 
($\Longleftarrow$) Trivial.
13. #s  Suppose $A,B,C,A\cup B\cup C$ are subspaces of $V$ and for contradiction suppose that no one of these contains the other two. Then we can show that $A\not\subseteq B\cup C$ and $B\cup C\not\subseteq A$. Let $u\in A\setminus(B\cup C)$ and $v\in(B\cup C)\setminus A$. Then we form the following set $W:=\{ v+\lambda u\ |\ \lambda\in \mathbb{F} \}$. Since we have assumed that $A\cup B\cup C$ is a subspace, and $u,v\in A\cup B\cup C$, we have $W \subseteq A\cup B\cup C$. But notice that for all $w\in W$, does $w\not\in A$, since if $v+\lambda u\in A$ for some $\lambda\in \mathbb{F}$ then $v\in A$ ($\rightarrow\leftarrow$). Also notice that for similar reason if $v\in B$, then for all $w\in W$, $w\not\in B$, and similarly for $v\in C$. Therefore clearly, $v\not\in B\cap C$. Without loss of generality, suppose that $v\in B$, then $W\subseteq C$, therefore $v+u,v-u\in C$, and since $C$ is a subspace, we have $2v\in C\Rightarrow v\in C$ ($\rightarrow\leftarrow$). And this is the ultimate contradiction.
14. $U+W=\{ (x+y,y-x,2x+2y)\ |\ x,y\in\mathbb{F} \}$. This is just the $z=2x$ plane in the $\mathbb{F}^3$ space.
15. Given $U\subseteq V$ subspace, it is closed under addition, hence $U+U=U$.
16. Addition of subspaces is in the atomic level defined element-wise, which is commutative, hence the subspace addition is also commutative.
17. And similarly, it follows other vector algebras as well, including associativity.
18. $\{ 0 \}$ is the additive identity of subspace addition. Only the additive identity subspaces have additive inverses, because if there is $U\subseteq V$ such that for some $W\subseteq V$, $W+V=\{ 0 \}$, then for all $v\in V,w\in W$, $v+w=v-w=0$ which means $v=0$ and symmetrically $w=0$. So $V=W=\{ 0 \}$.
19. This does not work. In $\mathbb{R}^2$, take $V_{1}:=\mathbb{R}^2$, $V_{2}:=\{ (x,0)\ |\ x\in \mathbb{R} \}$, $U:=\{ (0,y)\ |\ y\in \mathbb{R} \}$. Then clearly $V_{1}\ne V_{2}$ but $V_{1}+U=V_{2}+U=\mathbb{R}^2$.
20. The goal is to be able to access every value in $\mathbb{F}$ from every coordinate of each vector in the sum. But for it to be a direct sum we cannot allow any intersection other than $0$. So define $$W:=\big\{ (s,t,s,t)\ |\ s,t\in \mathbb{F}, (s=t\Rightarrow s=t=0) \big\}.$$ This way we guarantee direct sum and $U\oplus W=\big\{ (x+s,x+t,y+s,y+t)\ |\ x,y,s,t\in\mathbb{F} \big\}=\mathbb{F}^4$.
21. Again the goal is to access all values in $\mathbb{F}$ from each component, while maintaining $\{ 0 \}$ intersection. It can be seen that the first two components cover all of $\mathbb{F}$ separately but the others don't. So we define $$W:=\big\{ (0,0,a,b,c)\ |\ a,b,c\in\mathbb{F} \big\}.$$ This also works out well with the intersection condition, since if it happens that $(x,y,x+y,x-y,2x)=(0,0,a,b,c)$ then $x=y=0$ and the intersection will be $\{ 0 \}$.
22. This is easy given the last problem. Define $W_{1}:=\big\{ (0,0,z,0,0)\ |\ z\in\mathbb{F} \big\}$, $W_{2}:=\big\{ (0,0,0,z,0)\ |\ z\in\mathbb{F} \big\}$, and $W_{3}:=\big\{ (0,0,0,0,z)\ |\ z\in\mathbb{F} \big\}$. 
23. It is easy to see why it is not true, given #19. Take $U:=\{ (t,t)\ |\ t\in \mathbb{R} \}$, $V_{1}:=\{ (x,0)\ |\ x\in \mathbb{R} \}$, and $V_{2}:=\{ (0,y)\ |\ y\in \mathbb{R} \}$. 
24. #s Firstly note that $0:\mathbb{R}\to \mathbb{R}$ is both even and odd. And given any function $f:\mathbb{R}\to \mathbb{R}$, we know it can be decomposed uniquely into odd and even parts. And sum of any odd functions is odd, and that of even functions is even. These facts allow us to conclude that $V_{e},V_{o}\subset \mathbb{R}^\mathbb{R}$ are both subspaces, $V_{e}+V_{o}=\mathbb{R}^\mathbb{R}$, and they do admit a direct sum.