---
aliases:
  - Section 5
---
1. This is essentially [[Cardinality#^98854a|this corollary]]. Given if $B$ is finite then $A$ is necessarily finite hence countable. Else there is a bijection $\varphi:B\to \mathbb{N}$, and $\varphi(A)\subseteq \mathbb{N}$, hence countable by [[Cardinality#^8e663d|part (1)]]. And since $\varphi:A\to \varphi(A)$ is also bijective, we have $|A|=|\varphi(A)|$, and therefore $A$ is also countable.
2. The error in the proof lies at the very end of the contradiction argument. It is true by construction that $\bigcap_{n\in \mathbb{N}}I_{n}$ contains no rational, but that does not mean that it is empty. It is totally possible that it contains only irrationals. It cannot contain *two or more* irrationals because there will be a rational between them, but it can just be a singleton irrational, and therefore the contradiction is not achieved anymore.
3. **(a)** We shall assume without loss of generality that all the sets involved are pairwise disjoint. The rest is a straightforward induction. Firstly for two sets, if one of them, say $A_{1}$ is finite with $|A_{1}|=m$, and $\psi:\mathbb{N}_{m}\to A_{1}$, $\varphi: \mathbb{N}\to A_{2}$ are bijective, then we just define a new bijection $f:\mathbb{N}\to A_{1}\cup A_{2}$ by $$f(n)=\begin{cases} \psi(n) & \text{if}\ n \in \mathbb{N}_{m} \\ \varphi(n-m) & \text{if}\ n>m \end{cases}$$ Otherwise, if both are infinite and again $\psi,\varphi$ are the respective bijections, define the new bijection by $$f(n)=\begin{cases} \psi(\frac{n}2) & \text{if}\ n\ \text{is even} \\ \phi(\frac{n+1}2) & \text{if}\ n\ \text{is odd} \end{cases}$$ Now assume that in similar circumstances $\bigcup_{k=1}^nA_{k}$ is countable. To show that $\bigcup_{k=1}^{n+1}A_{k}$ is also countable, note that $\bigcup_{k=1}^{n+1}A_{k}=\big(\bigcup_{k=1}^nA_{k}\big)\cup A_{n+1}$, both disjoint and $\bigcup_{k=1}^{n}A_{k}$ is countable. Therefore $\bigcup_{k=1}^{n+1}A_{k}$ is also countable and induction is countable, by the base case situation, and the induction is complete.
**(b)** Induction cannot be used because the union involved in $\bigcap_{n\in \mathbb{N}}A_{n}$ is an infinite one. Induction works only for finite parameters, no matter how large.
**(c)** Arranging $\mathbb{N}$ into a grid is essentially just defining a bijection $\gamma:\mathbb{N}^2\to \mathbb{N}$. Now first we assume that all the sets in the infinite union are infinite (otherwise the alternate proof provided next covers all finite cases) and then enumerate the elements as $A_{n}=\{ a_{n,1},a_{n,2},\dots \}$, which is a bijection and therefore we have defined a bijection $a\circ\gamma:\mathbb{N}\to \bigcup_{n\in \mathbb{N}}A_{n}$.
**Alternate proof.** Let the sequence of primes be $(p_{n})$ and then enumerate the elements of $A_{n}$ by $\{ p_{n},p_{n}^2,p_{n}^3,\dots \}$. This works regardless of whether each set is finite or not. This defines an injection into $\mathbb{N}$, and therefore the original set $\bigcup_{n\in \mathbb{N}}A_{n}$ is also countable.
4. **(a)** Firstly we biject $\sigma:(a,b)\to(-1,1)$ by $\sigma(x)=\frac{2x-a-b}{b-a}$ and then $f:(-1,1)\to \mathbb{R}$ with $f(x)=\tan(\frac{\pi x}2)$ is a bijection. Therefore we have the bijection $f\circ\sigma:(a,b)\to \mathbb{R}$.
**(b)** Same construction as the previous part, except here $\sigma(x)=x-a$ and $f(x)=\ln(x)$.
**(c)** #s We shall use the same technique used to map $\mathbb{W}$ to $\mathbb{N}$, just now in a way so that it all fits within $(0,1)$. Firstly partition $[0,1)$ into a disjoint collection as $[0,1)=P\cup A_{1}\cup A_{2}\cup A_{3}\cup\cdots$ where $P:=\{ 0,\frac{1}2,\frac{1}2+\frac{1}4,\cdots \}$ and we enumerate $P$ as $p_{0}=0,\ p_{n}=\sum_{k=1}^n2^{-n}$. The other sets are defined as $A_{1}:=(0,\frac{1}2),\ A_{n}:=\big(\sup(A_{n-1}),\ \sup(A_{n-1})+2^{-n}\big)$. And we now define the bijection $f:[0,1)\to(0,1)$ with $f(p_{n-1})=p_{n},\ \forall n\in \mathbb{N}$ and $f:\bigcup_{n\in \mathbb{N}}A_{n}\to \bigcup_{n\in \mathbb{N}}A_{n}$ as the identity map. Clearly it is injective since it is injective on both of the restricted domains, and it is surjective because $f[0,1)=\bigcup_{n\in \mathbb{N}}A_{n}\cup P\setminus \{ 0 \}=[0,1)\setminus \{ 0 \}=(0,1)$. Therefore we have defined an explicit bijection between $[0,1)$ and $(0,1)$. ^702442
5. meh
6. **(a)** $$\bigcup_{n\in \mathbb{N}}(n,n+1)$$
**(b)** Claim is that it is not possible to have an uncountable collection of disjoint open intervals. For given any collection $\mathcal{O}$ of pairwise disjoint open intervals, each interval contains a rational, and no two intervals contain the same rational, for they are disjoint. This defines an injection $\mathcal{O}\hookrightarrow\mathbb{Q}$ and therefore $\mathcal{O}$ is countable.
7. **(a)** $x\mapsto(x,\frac{1}2)$
**(b)** #s Not only an injection, this defines a bijection itself. Given that each pair $(x,y)\in(0,1)^2$ has a decimal expansion that having no infinite string of $0$'s, let $x=\sum_{n\in \mathbb{N}}\frac{x_{n}}{10^n}$ and $y=\sum_{n\in \mathbb{N}}\frac{y_{n}}{10^n}$, we can define the image of $(x,y)$ as $\alpha=\sum_{n\in \mathbb{N}}\frac{\alpha_{n}}{10^n}$, where $$\alpha_{n}=\begin{cases} x_{\frac{n}2} & \text{if}\ n\ \text{is even} \\ y_{\frac{n+1}2} & \text{if}\ n\ \text{is odd} \end{cases}$$
Note that for any $\alpha \in(0,1)^2$, we can decompose it into respective $(x,y)$ except in *two* cases for $\alpha$ of the form $0.x_{1}9x_{2}9x_{3}9\dots$ and $0.9y_{1}9y_{2}9y_{3}\dots$ since $1=0.999\dots \not\in(0,1)$. This also can be fixed by first bijecting $(0,1)$ to $(0,1]$ according to something similar to #4(c). This therefore gives us a bijection between $(0,1)$ and $(0,1)^2$.
8. #s It clearly works for finite $B$, and also for a countably infinite $B:=\{ 2^{-n}\ |\ n\in \mathbb{N} \}$. We claim that for any such uncountable $B$, we can always get a sum of at least $2$ (or any number, for that matter). Note that it is enough to show that there are always infinitely many numbers in $B$ greater than some positive number, for some finite sum to exceed any given number. We will show that this is always the case. For suppose for the sake of contradiction that it is not and for all $\varepsilon>0$, $B\cap[\varepsilon,\infty)$ is finite. Then we define a countable collection of finite sets $\mathcal{C}:=\{ S_{1},S_{2},S_{3},\dots \}$ where $\forall n\in \mathbb{N},\ S_{n}:=\{ s\in S\ |\ s\ge 2^{-n} \}$. Clearly, $\bigcup\mathcal{C}$ is countable. Now notice that for any $\sigma\in S,\ \exists k\in \mathbb{N}:\ \sigma\ge 2^{-k}\ \Longrightarrow\ \sigma\in \bigcup\mathcal{C}\ \Longrightarrow\ S\subseteq \bigcup\mathcal{C}$, an uncountable set being a subset of a countable one, which gives the contradiction. ($\rightarrow\leftarrow$) 
9. meh, use height of the polynomial and countable union of finite sets.
10. **(a)** Same argument as in #8, just using countable union of countable sets instead of finite sets potentially with an added $\{ 0 \}$ in the collection.
**(b)** Given the set $A:=\{ a\in(0,1)\ |\ C\cap[a,1]\ \text{is uncountable} \}$, and $\alpha=\sup(A)$. The question basically reduces to if $\alpha\in A$. We claim that $\alpha \not\in A$. For if $\alpha\in A$, for all $\varepsilon>\alpha$, $C\cap[\varepsilon,1]$ is countable. And by similar argument as before we can conclude that $C\cap[\alpha,1]$ is also countable. ($\rightarrow\leftarrow$) 
We can prove another extra result to this, that if we define $B:=\{ a\in(0,1)\ |\ C\cap[a,1]\ \text{is infinite} \}$ and $\beta=\sup(B)$, then it is possible that $\beta\in B$. Take for example $C:=[0,\frac{1}2]\cup\{ \frac{1}2+2^{-n}\ |\ n\in \mathbb{N} \}$. This works because the fact that the countable union coming out to be countable instead of uncountable does not give a contradiction in this case.
**(c)** It does remain true. The argument is the same because we have countable union. 
11. #d not a doubt. just come back later.