---
aliases:
  - Section 4
---
1. We simply form an algorithm that changes any arrangement to the intended arrangement. Given 3 morphisms, it is already at most one application of associativity. Suppose we can sort $(n-1)\geq3$ morphisms. Given $n$ morphisms $f_n,f_{n-1},\ldots,f_1$ in that order arranged in that order, with a bracket enclosing either only two morphisms or a morphism and one such bracket or two brackets, we are required to sort it. We use induction so we acquire $(f_nf_{n-1})$, call it a new morphism $f'_{n-1}$ and induce for the remaining $(n-1)$ morphisms. If $(f_nf_{n-1})$ is present then we are done. Else we have a $f_n(()())$ system. Applying associativity, we get a $(f_n())()$ system which is essentially a $f_n()$ system, and continuing like this within less than $n-2$ applications of associativity, we will reach that $(f_nf_{n-1})$ system and be done. 
2. An equivalence relation works, with the same construction as in example 3.6 as mentioned. This is because in that case $\forall A,B\in\mathrm{Obj}(\mathsf{C})$. $\mathrm{Hom}_\mathsf{C}(A,B)=\{(A,B),(B,A)\}$ or $\mathrm{Hom}_\mathsf{C}(A,B)=\varnothing$. So every existent morphism has its inverse together with it.
3. Suppose $f\in\mathrm{Hom}_\mathsf{C}(A,B)$ has a right-inverse $g\in\mathrm{Hom}_\mathsf{C}(B,A)$ such that $fg=1_A$, then given any $\alpha,\beta\in\mathrm{Hom}_\mathsf{C}(B,Z)$, if $\alpha f=\beta f$ then composing, $$(\alpha f)g=\alpha(fg)=\alpha1_A=\alpha=\beta=\beta1_A=\beta(fg)=(\beta f)g.$$ Hence $f$ is an epimorphism.
	To show that an epimorphism may not have a right-inverse. Consider a category $\mathsf{C}$ with $\mathrm{Hom}_\mathsf{C}(A,B)=\{f\}$ and $\forall Z\in\mathrm{Obj}(\mathsf{C}),\ \mathrm{Hom}_\mathsf{C}(B,Z)=\varnothing$. Then the condition for being an epimorphism is vacuously true and also we don't have a right-inverse since $\mathrm{Hom}_\mathsf{C}(B,A)=\varnothing$. 
4. Given monomorphisms $f\in\mathrm{Hom}_\mathsf{C}(A,B)$ and $g\in\mathrm{Hom}_\mathsf{C}(B,C)$, suppose for some $\alpha,\beta\in\mathrm{Hom}_\mathsf{C}(Z,A)$, $(gf)\alpha=(gf)\beta$. Then $$g(f\alpha)=g(f\beta)\ \Rightarrow\ f\alpha=f\beta\ \Rightarrow \alpha=\beta,$$ so $gf$ is also a monomorphism. Therefore we can construct a subcategory $\mathsf{C}_{mono}$ by $\mathrm{Obj}(\mathsf{C}_{mono}):=\mathrm{Obj}(\mathsf{C})$ and $\forall A,B\in\mathrm{Obj}(\mathsf{C})$, let $$\mathrm{Hom}_{\mathsf{C}_{mono}}(A,B):=\{f\in\mathrm{Hom}_\mathsf{C}(A,B)\ |\ f\ \text{is monic}\}.$$ It is a subcategory because identity is an isomorphism hence a monomorphism, monomorphism is closed under composition and composition is associative.
	We can similarly show that epimorphisms are also closed under composition, and therefore a similar subcategory $\mathsf{C}_{epi}$ exists.
	We cannot have the subcategories of non-monic or non-epic morphisms because the identities are both monic and epic and they have to be included.
5. #omitted  As the category $\mathsf{MSet}$ was constructed in [[Al;Al-Ch-0 I.3.|Section 3]] #9, the sets of morphisms are taken directly from the morphisms of $\mathsf{Set}$ so the monomorphisms are injections, or more precisely, $f(s)=f(t)\Rightarrow s\sim t$, and the epimorphisms are surjections onto equivalence classes.