---
aliases:
  - Section 3
---

1. Given category $\mathsf{C}$ we define another category $\mathsf{C}^{op}$ by $\mathrm{Obj}(\mathsf{C}^{op}):=\mathrm{Obj}(\mathsf{C}^{op})$ and for all $A,B\in\mathrm{Obj}(\mathsf{C}^{op}),\ \mathrm{Hom}_{\mathsf{C}^{op}}(A,B):=\mathrm{Hom}_\mathsf{C}(B,A)$. Then we define the rest of the category as follows: clearly $\mathrm{End}_{\mathsf{C}^{op}}(A)=\mathrm{End}_\mathsf{C}(A)$. For $\mathrm{Hom}_{\mathsf{C}^{op}}(A,B)\ni f=f'\in\mathrm{Hom}_\mathsf{C}(B,A)$ and $\mathrm{Hom}_{\mathsf{C}^{op}}(B,C)\ni g=g'\in\mathrm{Hom}_\mathsf{C}(C,B)$, define $gf=f'g'$. Clearly since $f'g'\in\mathrm{Hom}_\mathsf{C}(C,A)$, we have $gf\in\mathrm{Hom}_{\mathsf{C}^{op}}(A,C)$. And with $f=f',g=g',h=h'$, $f'(g'h')=(f'g')h'\ \Rightarrow\ h(gf)=(hg)f$, so the composition is associative. Therefore we have defined the category $\mathsf{C}^{op}$.
2. Given a finite set $A$, $\mathrm{End}_\mathsf{Set}(A)$ is just the set of all functions $A\to A$, hence $|\mathrm{End}_\mathsf{Set}(A)|=|A|^{|A|}$.
3.  We infer from the statement $a\sim a$ and $a\sim b$ the statement $a\sim b$ again. And we similarly infer from $a\sim b$ and $b\sim b$ the statement $a\sim b$, both using the transitivity relation.
4. No we can't because $<$ is not reflexive,disallowing identities.
5. The subset relation is an instance of a reflexive transitive relation (partial order). It just replaces the more general $\sim$ with $\subseteq$.
6. We define the category $\mathsf{V}$ by $\mathrm{Obj}(\mathsf{V}):=\mathbb{W}$ and $\forall m,n\in\mathbb{W},\ \mathrm{Hom}_\mathsf{V}(n,m)$ being the set of all $m\times n$ matrices with real entries. We can define composition as follows: for $A_{m\times n}=f\in\mathrm{Hom}_\mathsf{V}(n,m)$ and $B_{n\times p}=g\in\mathrm{Hom}_\mathsf{V}(p,n)$, define $fg=(AB)_{m\times p}$. Since matrix multiplication is associative, this composition is associative as well. We can define the identity by $1_n:=I_n$. Therefore we have defined the category $\mathsf{V}$. 
7. Given a category $\mathsf{C}$ and $A\in\mathrm{Obj}(\mathsf{C})$, we can define the *coslice category* $\mathsf{C}^A$ by $\mathrm{Obj}(\mathsf{C}^A):=\bigcup_{Z\in\mathrm{Obj}(\mathsf{C})}\mathrm{Hom}_\mathsf{C}(A,Z)$. We define $\mathrm{Hom}_{\mathsf{C}^A}(x,y):=\{\sigma\in\mathrm{Obj}(\mathsf{C}^A)\ |\ \sigma x=y\}$. Clearly $\mathrm{Hom}_{\mathsf{C}^A}(x,y)\subseteq\mathrm{Hom}_\mathsf{C}(Y,Y)$ where $x:A\to X$ and $y:A\to Y$, therefore associativity and identity is automatically satisfied.
8. This doesn't get any easier. $\mathsf{SET}$ be a full subcategory of the usual category $\mathsf{Set}$ of all sets, such that $\forall S\in\mathrm{Obj}(\mathsf{SET})\subset\mathrm{Obj}(\mathsf{Set})$, $S$ is infinite, i.e. there is an injection $\mathbb{N}\hookrightarrow S$. Now the usual functions (morphisms) in $\mathsf{Set}$ that are between infinite sets are just as good to be morphisms in $\mathsf{SET}$. Therefore we can let $\forall A,B\in\mathrm{Obj}(\mathsf{SET})$, $\mathrm{Hom}_{\mathsf{SET}}(A,B):=\mathrm{Hom}_\mathsf{Set}(A,B)$ and we have our full subcategory $\mathsf{SET}$.
9. So firstly we define multisets in the way described: given a set $S$ and an equivalence $\sim$ defined on it, we define the corresponding multiset to be $S/\sim$. We can define a notion of morphisms between such multisets as functions $f\ :\ S/\sim_{S}\ \longrightarrow\ T/\sim_{T}$. Now we can define the category $\mathsf{MSet}$ properly (provided $\mathsf{Set}$ has already been defined). Let $\mathrm{Obj}(\mathsf{MSet})$ be the class of all pairs $(S,\sim_S)$ where $S\in\mathrm{Obj}(\mathsf{Set})$ and $\sim_S$ is an equivalence on $S$. And let $\mathrm{Hom}_\mathsf{MSet}((S,\sim_S),(T,\sim_T)):=\mathrm{Hom}_\mathsf{Set}(S/\sim_S,T/\sim_T)$. This gives us the identity and associative composition as well since it is derived from $\mathsf{Set}$. Therefore we have formally constructed the category $\mathsf{MSet}$ of multisets. We can also see why "an isomorphic copy of" $\mathsf{Set}$ is a full subcategory of it, by simply letting $\sim_S$ be the equality relation $=$ for every set $S$.
10. Given that in *some* situations, there is a *subobject classifier* $\Omega\in\mathrm{Obj}(\mathsf{C})$ such that for all $A\in\mathrm{Obj}(\mathsf{C})$, there is a class of *subobjects* $\mathfrak{S}(A)$ isomorphic to $\mathrm{Hom}_\mathsf{C}(A,\Omega)$, we are required to show that such a subobject classifier indeed exists in $\mathsf{Set}$. In the terminology of $\mathsf{Set}$ it is to find a set $\Omega$ such that $|\mathcal{P}(A)|=|\Omega^A|$. Now it becomes painstakingly clear that $\Omega=\{0,1\}$ indeed exists, and that any $\Omega$ with $|\Omega|=2$ works. But here we are assuming that the subobject has to be the familiar subset instead of being another random bizarre object.
11. #omitted 