---
aliases:
  - Section 2
---
1. Standard high-school combinatorics. Given any set $A$ with $|A|=n$, we know by definition that there is an enumeration bijection between $A$ and $\mathbb{N}_n=\{1,2,\ldots,n\}$, say $\#:A\to \mathbb{N}_n$. Let $S_n$ denote the set of all bijections within $\mathbb{N}_n$ and let $\mathcal{A}$ be that within $A$. We know that $|S_n|=n!$ and since we can define a bijection between $\mathcal{A}$ and $S_n$ by $\mathcal{A}\ni\phi\longmapsto \#\circ\phi\circ\#^{-1}\in S_n$. So $|\mathcal{A}|=|S_n|=n!$.
2. *A function is surjective if and only if it has a right inverse.*
*Proof.*	($\Longrightarrow$) Given $f:A\to B$ surjective, then consider the collection of fibres of $f$ given by $\mathcal{F}:=\{f^{-1}(b)\ |\ b\in B\}$ and let $\Gamma:\mathcal{F}\to\bigcup\mathcal{F}$ be a choice function. Define the function $\mathfrak{G}:B\to\mathscr{P}(A)$ by $\mathfrak{G}(b)=f^{-1}(b),\ \forall b\in B$, so $\mathfrak{G}(B)=\mathcal{F}$. And finally define $g:=\Gamma\circ\mathfrak{G}$. If $a\in f^{-1}(\{b\})$ then $f(a)=b$, so for all $b\in B,\ g(b)=\Gamma(\mathfrak{G}(b))\in\mathfrak{G}(b)=f^{-1}(\{b\})$, hence $f(g(b))=b$, which means $f\circ g=\mathrm{id}_B$ and $f$ has a right-inverse.
($\Longleftarrow$) Given $f:A\to b$, suppose there is $h:B\to A$ such that $f\circ h=\mathrm{id}_B$. Since $h$ is a function, for all $b\in B,\ \exists a\in A:\ a=h(b)$, hence $f(a)=f(h(b))=(f\circ h)(b)=b$ which means $f$ is surjective.
3. The inverse of a bijection has a left and right inverse, hence is a bijection. Given $f,g$ bijections, $f\circ g$ has a left and right inverse, namely $g^{-1}\circ f^{-1}$, since $$ g^{-1}\circ f^{-1}\circ f\circ g=g^{-1}\circ\mathrm{id}\circ g=\mathrm{id}$$ and similar for right-composition.
4. Given a set of sets $\mathcal{S}$, we define the isomorphism relation $\cong$ on $\mathcal{S}$. Clearly $\forall R,S,T\in\mathcal{S},\ S\cong S$ by the identity map $\mathrm{id}_S$, $S\cong T\Rightarrow T\cong S$, and $R\cong S\ \land\ S\cong T\ \Rightarrow\ R\cong T$. The symmetry and transitivity follow from the last excercise.
5. A function $f:A\to B$ is an epimorphism if for all sets $Z$ and functions $\alpha,\beta:B\to Z$, $\alpha\circ f=\beta\circ f\ \Rightarrow\ \alpha=\beta$. 
*A function $f:A\to B$ is an epimorphism if and only if it is a surjection.*
*Proof.* ($\Longrightarrow$, contrapositive) Given $f:A\to B$ not surjective, there is $b\in B\setminus f(A)$. Then define $\alpha,\beta:B\to Z$ with arbitrary $Z$ such that $\alpha|_{f(A)}=\beta|_{f(A)}$ but $\alpha(b)\neq\beta(b)$. Then clearly $\alpha\circ f=\beta\circ f$ but $\alpha\ne\beta$. So $f$ is not an epimorphism. 
($\Longleftarrow$) Given $f:A\to B$ surjective, let $h:B\to A$ be a right-inverse. Then for any $\alpha,\beta:B\to Z$, if $\alpha\circ f=\beta\circ f$, then $$\alpha\circ f\circ h=\beta\circ f\circ h\ \Rightarrow\ \alpha\circ\mathrm{id}_B=\beta\circ\mathrm{id}_B\ \Rightarrow\ \alpha=\beta.$$
6. Given the canonical projection $\pi_A:A\times B\to A$ by $\pi_A(a,b)=a$, for any function $f:A\to B$, we define the trivial pairing $p:A\to A\times B$ by $p(a)=(a,f(a))$, so essentially $f=p(A)$. This is a right-inverse (or, *section*) of $\pi_A$. Note that here we had to use a function instead of any other object because a function takes all the values of the domain (useful in ensuring $\pi_A\circ p=\mathrm{id}_A$) and unique image allows $p$ to be a function as well.
7. Note that the canonical projection $\pi_A|_f$ (restricted to $f$), is a bijection between $f$ and $A$. This is because for all $a\in A$ there is $(a,f(a))\in f$ with $\pi_A|_f(a,f(a))=a$ and $\pi_A|_f(a,f(a))=a=b=\pi_A|_f(b,f(b))\ \Longrightarrow\ f(a)=f(b)\ \Rightarrow\ (a,f(a))=(b,f(b))$ hence it is both surjective and injective. (I thoroughly used $f$ as a set instead of the *graph set* $\Gamma_f$)
8. Given the function $\alpha:\mathbb{R}\to\mathbb{C}$ by $\alpha(x)=e^{2\pi ix}$, the canonical decomposition is $\alpha=\mathrm{in}\circ\mathfrak{a}\circ\pi$. Here $\sim$ is an equivalence such that $x\sim y$ whenever $e^{2\pi ix}=e^{2\pi iy}$ hence $x-y\in\mathbb{Z}$, i.e. they have the same fractional part. So $\mathbb{R}/\sim\ =\ \{\mathbb{Z}+t\ |\ t\in[0,1)\}$ is the collection of subsets of $\mathbb{R}$ having numbers of the same fractional parts. The surjection $\pi$ takes its real to its equivalence class. The bijection $\mathfrak{a}$ places each equivalence class on the unit circle (this is why the unit circle is so naturally parametrised by the interval $[0,1)$). The injection $\mathrm{in}$ just includes the unit circle into the complex plane.
9. Given $A'\cong A''$ and $B'\cong B''$ with $A'\cap B'=A''\cap B''=\varnothing$, let $\phi:A'\to A''$ and $\psi:B'\to B''$ be bijections. Then define the bijection $\varphi:A'\cup B'\to A''\cup B''$ by $$\varphi(x)=\begin{cases} \phi(x) &\text{if}\ x\in A'\\
\psi(x) &\text{if}\ x\in B'
\end{cases}$$
It is easy to see why it is a bijection. The function is well defined because $A'\cap B'=\varnothing$ injection works because $A''\cap B''=\varnothing$.
10. Standard high-school combinatorics. Each element in $A$ has $|B|$ choices to be mapped to. 
11. This is exactly what a *characteristic function* is. We define the bijection between $\{0,1\}^A$ and $\mathcal{P}(A)$ by $\chi\mapsto\{a\in A\ |\ \chi(a)=1\}$. Every set has a characteristic function $\chi\in2^A$ and any function in $2^A$ can be used to generate a unique subset.